# FEACHURES!!!! and yes thats how you spell it >:D

### Vehicle Feachures:
- **Vehicle Damage** (Represented by every part on any said vehicle having a value from 1-10, 1 being no damage, 10 being fully damaged! all of values for every part on a vehicle is then calculated together somhow to work out the total vehicle damage! there can also be more specific things, like if your fuel tank has damage greater than say 8 damage, it will start leaking, and thus your fuel level will start going down!)
- **vehicle buying/selling/reselling!!**
You can buy vehicles from vehicle dealers dotted around the maps, or thru a computer, vehicles prices are caluclated by the parts they have installed, and that "calculated" price, is taken, and slightly modified within a set range (to simulate varible prices by the seller) hopefully this will stop vehicles from being stupidly cheap/way to expensive if they have a calucated price to start with, and then the slight random is added/taken from that? :D
You can also sell vehicles at the same dealerships (only cirtain dealerships support selling your vehicles for you), or you can sell them online on a computer, and the same system in buying vehicles applies to selling them, it caluclates a starting price from all the installed parts on the said vehicle, and then the user can select a price within a set threshold around that starting price, if the price is too hard, NPC's wont buy the vehicle, or they will try and put in low offers, if the price is too cheap, there will be a lot of NPC's attempting to buy it, and the user will likely lose money if they sell it for less than the car is worth...

- **Vehicle Parts System**
you can also install arftermarket parts on your vehicles! you can source these parts on the nourmurus online dealerships on the computer, or in store car parts shops dotted around the map! (Note, some dealerships online might be cheaper than in person, but beware of shipping costs!!! >:D)!
in singleplayer the prices are static (defined in stuff2/prices.yaml), but in multiplayer they do have some dynamicness to them, the default prices are used to start, but depending on if a lot of players buy a cirtain item, there is a chance the shop owner (NPC or player)will raise its price, and it visa versa, if a item is selling poorly, there is a small chance the shop owner (NPC or player) will chose to lower the price in attempt to get the item to sell.
arfter you have purchased a part, you can install it on your vehicle a few diffrent ways, option 1 is to go to a paid mechanic and pay a fee for them to install it for you, note that mechanic shops have a star rating (1* to 5*****) and be wary, some mechanic shops may be scams, and arfter you pay them they might not complete the job and theres a small chance they steal your new parts for themselves! so be sure to cheak ratins and/or reviews if playing in multiplayer!
option 2 is to install it yourself, you will need a addiqute garage location, and the correct tools for the job! (Tools can be purchased at cirtain tool shops, vehicle part stores and occasianlly general stores dotted around the map!).
park your desired vehicle in your garage, select the part you want to install from your inventory, and the reqired tool for the job (If you dont know what tool you need, cheak the ingame manual by pressing f10 ingame), then you can press "E", and you can review the stamina costs, time the install will take, and if it looks good, you can click to confirm, be wary tho, there is a very small chance (about 0.3%) you may be injured while installing the part, if so the part install will be cancelled and if the injury is bad you will have to go to a hosbital and pay hosibital fee's.
also! if the parts you install do not meet the regulations in your state of the map, there is a chance police will notice you and you could get fined or your vehicle impounded! you can confirm the legality of vehicle parts at council buildings and/or police stations in your town/state of the map.

- **Police System**
in MTT, there are police stations dotted around the maps and states, some are smaller, some are bigger, and in those police stations are 5-30 officers depending on the police stations size and employment ratios in its town, that all have working shifts, diffrent jobs ect.
the police officers on shifts for patrol will patrol around designated areas (these areas are more in areas with high recent crime, densly populated areas ect) in the police cars, they will catch players/NPCs that are breaking laws, if a officer catches a NPC/player breaking a law, they can chose to issue a fine, or a verbal warning, the decision is depending on the servirity law the player/npc in question broke and the officers personailty/traits.
Laws also vary by states in the maps, and state goverments can chose to issue new laws on top of the predefined laws (That are defined in stuff/laws.yaml), states by default start with a starting set of laws out of all the laws defined in laws.yaml, and in the case of incresed offences or crimes, the state goverment can chose to issue new laws from the predefined laws to try and solve the crime ect.
if a player or npc decides to attempt to escape/run from a police officer, the police officer can chase the player/npc in question, and use varying tactics to catch/stop the fleeing npc/player, these tatics are defined in "stuff2/policetactics.yaml", and states goverments determine witch tatics are allowed versus not allowed, and the tatics used are varying with the allowed tatics in the current state, and also the severity of the situation, if NPC/player lifes are at risk the officers can chose to use more extreme tatics to stop/catch the player/npc.
if a Npc/player is cought disobaying the law in that current state, they can be issued a fine by the officer, or for more extreme law breaks, they can be issued a large fine by the states/towns court of justice, and even jail time, what is issued by a officer/the court varys by state laws, options (detailed in stuff2/lawfullpunishments.yaml) and other varying factors.
there is also the small chance of "false court trials" where the court judge or another person within the court was bribed or had a motive against the said ocusser, and thus lead to a flase acusation, if this is discovered the case of a active or previues case, the ocuser should be given compinsation and a fair redo trial, and the judge or person that was bribed or had motives against the ocuser should lose there job, and have optionally punished by the state according to that states laws/regulations/opinions ect.

- **Economy & Trade System**
in MTT theres a detailed Economy & Trade System! (Of course there is :D) where prices are slightly dynamic, they all start static, defined from a stuff2/prices.yaml, but depending on supply/demand, and the shop owner/supplyers thoughts, they can change dramatically.
say for example, a farm is producing apples, they sell them to a general store in a town, where the citizens of that town buy them.
if say for example another apple farm opened up, this causes compition for the first apple farm, and with compitition gives the people of the town more choice, and if the 2end apple farm is selling nicer apples, more people will buy from them, and less from the first apple farm, thus the first apple farm sees drops in profit, and has to raise prices to cover production and running costs, and then those price increses, the genral store buying these apples to sell will have to pay more, so they will have to sell the apples in there general store for more, and then that will deter customers, who might look for cheaper alternitives...
and this is only one of the many ways a small change in the econmy can cause huge difrences in the state, maybe even the world of MTT.
and continueing on this example, what if a general store in a town across sees the first general store selling there apples for $3.99, where as they are selling them for only $2.99, so they decide to raise there price to match the compitition, and if other general stores see these 2 selling there apples for $3.99 now, they all two will raise there prices, thus causing a ripple in the state wide econmy, where apples went from $2.99 state wide, to $3.99 state wide..
And now this affects anyone who might be buying these apples, say a grandma in a small town has a cake making bussiness, and she uses apples in her apple slice, she will now have to pay $3.99 for all her apples, meaning she will have to charge more for her apple slices...
and this example is a good way to show how the econmy works in MTT, 1 small change in the economy can cause a huge change in the economy.
the whole system hindges off the idea of supply and demand, if there is more demand than there is supply, prices will go up to cover the production costs, if theres not enough demand, prices will likely go down so bussinesses can sell more to cover there costs, there is still some factors in it tho, not every bussiness will do the same as others, it all depends on the thoughts of the player/npc who is running that bussiness, state regulations, say maybe a state regulations says you cant sell apples for less than $3.20 (This is a bad example) then prices will enevitbly go up to $3.20 or more, and there are also a lot of other factors that affect this.
there is also factors like, if a general store is getting its apples from one apple farm for $2.99 each and selling them for $3.99 ($1 profit for each apple the general store sells), but if they see a diffrent apple farm selling there apples for $1.99, they can switch to buying apples from them, and they can either sell the apples for $2.99, likely attracting more customers equalling more sales, witch gives them more profit, or they can keep selling them for $3.99 even tho they are only paying $1.99 for them, so they are now making $2 in proft per apple they sell. (the maths is probbabbly wrong but you get the idea :D)

- **NPC System**
the NPC system in MTT is gonna be Very advanced (and probabbbly dodgey), where NPC's have traits, and personalitys.
each NPC in the game has 10 traits, these are some what randomly picked from stuff/traits.yaml (i say somewhat random because there is a bit of error correction, just to try and avoid conflicting traits).
the traits of a NPC can define what job that NPC "choses" and also the NPCs general actions in the game. traits consist of a few things like, theres fixed traits, that every NPC has, say "Inteligence", and then a scale on 1-10, and then theres also the random traits, that as i said before are loaded from stuff/traits.yaml, these can be things that not every NPC has, therefor making sure not all the NPCs are the exact same.
theres also personality! each NPC has a personality, say for example:
theres a NPC walking along in the game, and another NPC/Player walks past them, and knocks into them...
if that NPC has a "Forgiving" personality, they will likely (depending on the "severity" of the "incident", this varys) forgive the NPC/Player, but there is a chance (this varys but about %5-15) that the NPC will go against its personality and maybe not forgive the player, and maybe be upset about it.
also, if the NPC gets upset, they will remember who made them upset (in this case the player bumped into them for say) and if they see the player again they might not interact with the player and/or if the player tries to the interact with the NPC, they might just ignore them...
There is also a tie in to the justice system, where...
say if the player or a NPC was to say steal a mailbox out of somones yard (extreme example heheh), if there are any NPC's nearby who "witness" the crime, there is a 50/50 (50%) chance that they will call police, and this same concept applies to fires and emergency, if a NPC witnesses a fire (they even have a small chance to misinterprit a situation and call fireies, even if the fire is a controlled fire) they will call firies.
and same with emergency, if they witnesss a NPC/Player hurt they will call the hosbital.
NPC's also have the ability to register for jobs in the MTT world, those jobs can be for other NPC run bussinesses/companys, or player run bussiness/companys, each NPC has a bank account, and NPC's have the apility to buy propertys too! (Note, the NPC jobs and propertys stuff is still a work and progress, and will be part of a +++"supporters" DLC :D along with a few other things ill mention in a dedicated Supporters DLC section.) 
The NPC's can also talk to each other, spreading info they gathered, and some may even spread roumers, say for example a player comits a crime, and a NPC catches them in the act, they might spread the news, and if enough NPC's belive it, NPC's might become more wary about the said player (Each NPC has a "wary" list, that has a list of players/other NPC's they are wary of, and might try to avoid interaction with) some shop owners may even call police if a person they are very wary of is acting suspicsusly near/in there shop/bussiness or nearby.
also if a player has a company or bussiness that employes NPC's/other players, there can be unions and uprisings if the employees (Npcs or players) are underpaid, bad working conditions or they do not like the work. NPC's and Players working for bussinesses/companys (Player/NPC owned) can even take legal action like sueing the bussiness/company in court, but they may have limited sucsess based on there argument.

- **Construction & Terrain** theres also a system in MTT for Construction! (Of course there IS!!! :D) so you can construct new buildings on land you own, found your own Construction company and do private and public contracts for profit, do goverment contracts like building new public spaces, new roads and hiyways, you can even make a dirt go-kart track on your property if you want!
theres also terrain working in with this, you can dig holes everywhere! not just in designated areas, and theres also diffrent soils, so normal dirt will be fairly easy to dig, wearas hard gravel or rock would be very hard to dig, and might reqire specilized tools (rockbreakers ect), you can also use tactics like Cut and fill.
so say for example you are building a new shed, and you need a nice foundation for it, and say you have a hill also on that same property, you can dig out of that hill, and put it where you need a new foundation, and doing this means you can avoid having to bring in dirt/metirials from off site, likely carrying fees too (buying the metiriles/transport of the metiriels) but sometimes this tactic is not relivent, say you needed gravel for the foundation and not just standard dirt, so you would likely have to source that from off-site, and pay for transport unless you have your own truck capable of transporting it.

- **Property & Real Estate System** you can even buy propertys in MTT! either from real astate agents in towns, or online real astate agents, propertys only go for sale if a NPC/Player sells a owned property (a large portion of NPCs start with owned land, just to kickstart the real astate simulation) 


- **Insurance System**
in MTT you can also get vehical insurance!!! which is very handy if you like crashing your cars (or other peoples cars hheeh) theres diffrent types of insurance, like full coverage, partial coverage, liability only, theft protection ect, and you can even combine them! (some companies might offer combos and discounts) insurance companies are NPCs, and they will also adjust your premiums depending on your driving record, past claims, vehicle type, value of your vehicle, the area you live in, weather conditions where you drive a lot, and if you get in trouble with police often, or have been in a few accidents recently! theres also a small chance of insurance fraud happening (npc or player) where they make a fake claim, and if discovered could get fines or jail, and maybe cancel your insurance! also if your car is stolen or totalled you have to deal with adjusters, paperwork and wait times, sometimes NPCs try to scam you, sometimes they are super helpful, depends on npc personalitys and traits.


- **Fuel & Energy System**
so fuel is also a big deal! like if you drive a lot, your fuel will go down, some cars are petrol, some diesel and some LPG, and fuel consumption is affected by terrain, weather, vehicle load, driving style, and even vehicle age/damage! theres fuel stations dotted around the maps, and some may have cheaper prices, some may have higher prices, and sometimes they run out of fuel (especially in multiplayer servers if lots of players use them) you can also steal fuel from NPCs if you are sneaky or have tools, or make your own fuel depot if you are rich and daring! fuel quality also varies, bad fuel can damage your engine over time, and if you run out, you have to call a tow truck, or push it heheh :D


### Ideas to work on:
- Vehicle History Reports: Add a system where players can check a vehicle’s past owners, accidents, and modifications. Some might be forged

- **(Added to the feachure list)** NPC Gossip System: NPCs share stories about players or other NPCs. Reputation spreads organically.

- **(Added to the feachure list)** NPC Unions: Workers strike if conditions are bad. Players must negotiate or face economic collapse.

- Dynamic News System: In-game newspapers or radio stations report on events, prices, and scandals. Players can read about their own crimes or market manipulations.

- Maybe cops can call for reinforcements depending on the suspects notoriety or wanted level.

- Could add dynamic pursuit behavior: roadblocks, spike strips, helicopters in larger cities, even traffic manipulation to trap you.

- Vehicle History Forgery: Some players or NPCs can sell forged histories—could even lead to legal cases if discovered.

- Dynamic News: Newspapers could comment on your reputation: “Player X caught speeding in stolen Cadillac,” and gossip spreads naturally via NPCs.

- Weather Impact: Roads, mud, and terrain could affect everything—vehicles, police chases, and NPC behavior.